$NetBSD: podules,v 1.9.2.1 2002/11/01 11:12:40 tron Exp $

/*
 * Copyright (c) 1996 Mark Brinicombe
 * All rights reserved.
 *
 * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
 * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
 * are met:
 * 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
 * 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
 *    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
 * 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
 *    must display the following acknowledgement:
 *      This product includes software developed by Mark Brinicombe
 *	for the NetBSD Project.
 * 4. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
 *    derived from this software without specific prior written permission
 *
 * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
 * IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
 * OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
 * IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
 * INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
 * NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
 * DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
 * THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
 * (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
 * THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
 */

/*
 * List of known podule manufacturers
 */

manufacturer	ACORN		0x0000	Acorn Computers
manufacturer	OLIVETTI	0x0002	Olivetti
manufacturer	WATFORD		0x0003	Watford Electronics
manufacturer	CCONCEPTS	0x0004	Computer Concepts
manufacturer	ARMADILLO	0x0007	Armadillo Systems
manufacturer	WILDVISION	0x0009	Wild Vision
manufacturer	HCCS		0x000c	HCCS
manufacturer	ATOMWIDE	0x0011	Atomwide
manufacturer	ATOMWIDE2	0x0017	Atomwide
manufacturer	LINGENUITY	0x001a	Lingenuity
manufacturer	IRLAM		0x001f	Irlam Instruments
manufacturer	OAK		0x0021	Oak Solutions
manufacturer	BEEBUG		0x0023	BEEBUG (RISC Developments)
manufacturer	SJ		0x0029	SJ Research
manufacturer	MORLEY		0x002b	Morley
manufacturer	HCCS2		0x002d	HCCS
manufacturer	VTI		0x0035	Vertical Twist
manufacturer	DTSOFT		0x0037	D.T. Software
manufacturer	CUMANA		0x003a	Cumana
manufacturer	ICS		0x003c	ICS
manufacturer	SERIALPORT	0x003f	Serial Port
manufacturer	ARXE		0x0041	ARXE
manufacturer	ALEPH1		0x0042	Aleph 1
manufacturer	ICUBED		0x0046	I-Cubed
manufacturer	BRINI		0x0050	Brini
manufacturer	ANT		0x0053	ANT
manufacturer	CASTLE		0x0055	Castle Technology
manufacturer	ALSYSTEMS	0x005b	Alsystems
manufacturer	SIMTEC		0x005f	Simtec Electronics
manufacturer	YES		0x0060	Yellowstone Educational Solutions
manufacturer	MCS		0x0063	MCS
manufacturer	EESOX		0x0064	EESOX

/*
 * List of known podules.
 */

podule	ACORN_SCSI		0x0002	Acorn SCSI interface
podule	ETHER1			0x0003	Ether1 interface
podule	ROMRAM			0x0005	ROM/RAM podule
podule	BBCIO			0x0006	BBC I/O podule
podule	FAXPACK			0x0007	FaxPack modem
podule	ST506			0x000b	ST506 HD interface
podule	ACORN_MIDI		0x0013	MIDI interface
podule	LASERDIRECT		0x0014	LaserDirect (Canon LBP-4)
podule	A448			0x0016	A448 sound sampler
podule	HCCS_IDESCSI		0x0022	HCCS IDE or SCSI interface
podule	CUMANA_SCSI2		0x003a	SCSI II interface
podule	ACORN_USERMIDI		0x003f	User Port/MIDI interface
podule	LINGENUITY_SCSI8	0x0040	8 bit SCSI interface
podule	ARXE_SCSI		0x0041	16 bit SCSI interface
podule	COLOURCARD		0x0050	ColourCard
podule	HAWKV9			0x0052	Hawk v9 mark2
podule	WILDVISION_SOUNDSAMPLER	0x0054	Wild Vision Sound Sampler
podule	DTSOFT_IDE		0x0055	IDE interface
/* XXX ID 0x0058 is used by Oak ClassNet (EtherO) Ethernet cards */
podule	OAK_SCSI		0x0058	16 bit SCSI interface
podule	ETHER2			0x0061	Ether2 interface
podule	ULTIMATE		0x0063	Ultimate micropodule carrier
podule	WILDVISION_CENTRONICS	0x006f	Bi-directional Centronics
podule	NEXUS			0x0064	Nexus interface (Podule)
podule	MORLEY_SCSI		0x0067	SCSI interface
podule	MORLEY_USERANALOGUE	0x006d	User and Analogue ports
podule	HCCS_USERANALOGUE	0x006e	User and Analogue ports
podule	LINGENUITY_SCSI8SHARE	0x008c	8 bit SCSIShare interface
podule	VTI_SCSI		0x008d	SCSI interface
podule	NEXUSNS			0x008f	Nexus interface (A3020 netslot)
podule	ATOMWIDE_SERIAL		0x0090	multiport serial interface
podule	LINGENUITY_SCSI		0x0095	16 bit SCSI interface
podule	LINGENUITY_SCSISHARE	0x0096	16 bit SCSIShare interface
podule	BEEBUG_IDE8		0x0097	8 bit IDE
podule	CUMANA_SCSI1		0x00a0	SCSI I interface
podule	ETHER3			0x00a4	Ether3/Ether5 interface
podule	ICS_IDE			0x00ae	IDE Interface
podule	SERIALPORT_DUALSERIAL	0x00b9	Serial interface
podule	ETHERLAN200		0x00bd	EtherLan 200-series
podule	SCANLIGHTV256		0x00cb	ScanLight Video 256
podule	EAGLEM2			0x00cc	Eagle M2
podule	LARKA16			0x00ce	Lark A16
podule	ETHERLAN100		0x00cf	EtherLan 100-series
podule	ETHERLAN500		0x00d4	EtherLan 500-series
podule	ETHERM			0x00d8	EtherM dual interface NIC
podule	CUMANA_SLCD		0x00dd	CDFS & SLCD expansion card
podule	BRINILINK		0x00df	BriniLink transputer link adapter
podule	ETHERB			0x00e4	EtherB network slot interface
podule	24I16			0x00e6	24i16 digitiser
podule	PCCARD			0x00ea	PC card
podule	ETHERLAN600		0x00ec	EtherLan 600-series
podule	CASTLE_SCSI16SHARE	0x00f3  8 or 16 bit SCSI2Share interface
podule	CASTLE_ETHERSCSISHARE	0x00f4  8 or 16 bit SCSI2Share interface, possibly with Ethernet
podule	CASTLE_ETHERSCSI	0x00f5  EtherSCSI
podule	CASTLE_SCSI16		0x00f6  8 or 16 bit SCSI2 interface
podule	ALSYSTEMS_SCSI		0x0107	SCSI II host adapter
podule	RAPIDE			0x0114	RapIDE32 interface
podule	ETHERLAN100AEH		0x011c	AEH77 (EtherLan 102)
podule	ETHERLAN200AEH		0x011d	AEH79 (EtherLan 210)
podule	ETHERLAN600AEH		0x011e	AEH62/78/99 (EtherLan 602)
podule	ETHERLAN500AEH		0x011f	AEH75 (EtherLan 512)
podule	CONNECT32		0x0125	Connect32 SCSI II interface
podule	CASTLE_SCSI32		0x012b  32 bit SCSI2 + DMA interface
podule	ETHERLAN700AEH		0x012e	AEH98 (EtherLan 700-series)
podule	ETHERLAN700		0x012f	EtherLan 700-series
podule	SIMTEC_IDE8		0x0130	8 bit IDE interface
podule	SIMTEC_IDE		0x0131	16 bit IDE interface
podule	MIDICONNECT		0x0133	Midi-Connect
podule	ETHERI			0x0139	EtherI interface
podule	MIDIMAX			0x0200	MIDI max
podule	MMETHERV		0x1234	Multi-media/EtherV
podule	ETHERN			0x5678	EtherN interface
