$NetBSD: podules,v 1.3.6.1 1997/03/11 21:53:30 is Exp $

/*
 * Copyright (c) 1996 Mark Brinicombe
 * All rights reserved.
 *
 * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
 * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
 * are met:
 * 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
 * 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
 *    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
 * 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
 *    must display the following acknowledgement:
 *      This product includes software developed by Mark Brinicombe
 *	for the NetBSD Project.
 * 4. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
 *    derived from this software without specific prior written permission
 *
 * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
 * IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
 * OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
 * IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
 * INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
 * NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
 * DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
 * THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
 * (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
 * THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
 */

/*
 * List of known podule manufacturers
 */

manufacturer	ACORN		0x0000	Acorn Computers
manufacturer	OLIVETTI	0x0002	Olivetti
manufacturer	WATFORD		0x0003	Watford
manufacturer	CCONCEPTS	0x0004	Computer Concepts
manufacturer	ARMADILLO	0x0007	Armadillo Systems
manufacturer	WILDVISION	0x0009	Wild Vision
manufacturer	ATOMWIDE	0x0011	Atomwide
manufacturer	LINGENUITY	0x001a	Lingenuity
manufacturer	IRLAM		0x001f	Irlam Instruments
manufacturer	OAK		0x0021	Oak Solutions
manufacturer	MORLEY		0x002b	Morley
manufacturer	CUMANA		0x003a	Cumana
manufacturer	ICS		0x003c	ICS
manufacturer	ARXE		0x0041	ARXE
manufacturer	ALEPH1		0x0042	Aleph 1
manufacturer	ICUBED		0x0046	I-Cubed
manufacturer	BRINI		0x0050	Brini
manufacturer	ANT		0x0053	ANT
manufacturer	ALSYSTEMS	0x005b	Alsystems
manufacturer	YES		0x0060	Yellowstone Educational Solutions
manufacturer	MCS		0x0063	MCS

/*
 * List of known podules.  Grouped by vendor.
 */

podule	ACORN		SCSI		0x0002	SCSI 1 interface
podule	ACORN		ETHER1		0x0003	ether 1 interface
podule	ACORN		RAMROM		0x0005	RAM/ROM podule
podule	ACORN		BBCIO		0x0006	BBC IO interface
podule	ACORN		MIDI		0x0013	MIDI interface
podule	ACORN		ETHER2		0x0061	ether 2 interface

podule	CCONCEPTS	LASERDIRECT	0x0014	laser direct (Canon LBP-4)

podule	ARMADILLO	A448		0x0016	A448 sound sampler

podule	WILDVISION	HAWKV9		0x0052	hawk v9 mark2
podule	WILDVISION	SCANLIGHTV256	0x00cb	scanlight video 256
podule	WILDVISION	EAGLEM2		0x00cc	eagle M2
podule	WILDVISION	LARKA16		0x00ce	lark A16
podule	WILDVISION	MIDIMAX		0x0200	MIDI max

podule	ATOMWIDE	ETHER3		0x00A4	ether 3/5 interface

podule	LINGENUITY	SCSI		0x0095	16 bit SCSI interface

podule	IRLAM		24I16		0x00e6	24i16 digitiser

podule	OAK		SCSI		0x0058	16 bit SCSI interface

podule	MORLEY		SCSI		0x0067	SCSI interface

podule	CUMANA		SCSI2		0x003a	SCSI II interface
podule	CUMANA		SCSI1		0x00a0	SCSI I interface
podule	CUMANA		SLCD		0x00dd	CDFS & SLCD expansion card

podule	ICS		IDE		0x00ae	IDE Interface

podule	ARXE		SCSI		0x0041	16 bit SCSI interface

podule	ALEPH1		PCCARD		0x00ea	PC card

podule	ICUBED		ETHERH		0x00ec	etherlan 600 network slot interface
podule	ICUBED		ETHERHFLASH	0x011e	etherlan 600 network slot interface
podule	ICUBED		ETHERLAN500	0x00d4	etherlen 500 interface
podule	ICUBED		ETHERLAN500A	0x011f	etherlen 500 interface
podule	ICUBED		ETHERLAN200	0x00bd	etherlen 200 interface
podule	ICUBED		ETHERLAN200A	0x011d	etherlen 200 interface
podule	ICUBED		ETHERLAN100	0x00c4	etherlen 100 interface
podule	ICUBED		ETHERLAN100A	0x011c	etherlen 100 interface

podule	BRINI		PORT		0x0000	BriniPort intelligent I/O interface
podule	BRINI		LINK		0x00df	BriniLink transputer link adapter

podule	ANT		ETHER3		0x00a4	ether 3/5 interface
podule	ANT		ETHERB		0x00e4	ether B network slot interface
podule	ANT		ETHERM		0x00d8	ether M dual interface NIC

podule	ALSYSTEMS	SCSI		0x0107	SCSI II host adapter

podule	YES		RAPIDE		0x0114	RapIDE32 interface

podule	MCS		SCSI		0x0125	Connect32 SCSI II interface
