The sparc-specific portion of the NetBSD 1.2 release is found in the
"sparc" subdirectory of the distribution.  That subdirectory is laid
out as follows:

.../NetBSD-1.2/sparc/
			binary/		sparc binary distribution sets;
					see below.

			security/	sparc security distribution;
					see below;

			install/	Base GENERIC kernels, tools,
					and installation/upgrade scripts.

The NetBSD/sparc binary distribution sets contain the binaries which
comprise the NetBSD 1.2 release for the sparc.  There are seven binary
distribution sets, and the "security" distribution set.  The binary
distribution sets can be found in subdirectories of the "sparc/binary"
subdirectory of the NetBSD 1.2 distribution tree, and are as follows:

	base12	The NetBSD/sparc 1.2 base binary distribution.  You
		MUST install this distribution set.  It contains the
		base NetBSD utilities that are necessary for the
		system to run and be minimally functional.  It
		includes shared library support, and excludes
		everything described below.
		[ 8.6M gzipped, 25.8M uncompressed ]

	comp12	The NetBSD/sparc Compiler tools.  All of the tools
		relating to C, C++, and FORTRAN (yes, there are two!).
		This set includes the system include files
		(/usr/include), the linker, the compiler tool chain,
		and the various system libraries (except the shared
		libraries, which are included as part of the base
		set).  This set also includes the manual pages for all
		of the utilities it contains, as well as the system
		call and library manual pages.
		[ 6.2M gzipped, 20.9M uncompressed ]

	etc12	This distribution set contains the system
		configuration files that reside in /etc and in several
		other places.  This set MUST be installed if you are
		installing the system from scratch, but should NOT be
		used if you are upgrading.  (If you are upgrading,
		it's recommended that you get a copy of this set and
		CAREFULLY upgrade your configuration files by hand.)
		[ 72K gzipped, 368K uncompressed ]

	games12	This set includes the games and their manual pages.
		[ 2.9M gzipped, 7.4M uncompressed ]

	man12	This set includes all of the manual pages for the
		binaries and other software contained in the base set.
		Note that it does not include any of the manual pages
		that are included in the other sets.
		[ 0.9M gzipped, 3.6M uncompressed ]

	misc12	This set includes the system dictionaries (which are
		rather large), the typesettable document set, and
		man pages for other architectures which happen to be
		installed from the source tree by default.
		[ 1.9M gzipped, 6.6M uncompressed ]

	text12	This set includes NetBSD's text processing tools,
		including groff, all related programs, and their
		manual pages.
		[ 0.8M gzipped, 3.1M uncompressed ]

	xbin12	This set is the X11R6.1 binary and library set.  It
		includes all the programs, fonts and libraries used
		in the X window system, and is mandatory to use X.
		[ 11M gzipped, 20M uncompressed ]

	xcon12	This set is the X11R6.1 contributed software collection,
		made up from programs in the contrib distribution.
		[ ? gzipped, ? uncompressed ]

	xinc12	This set is the X11R6.1 include set.
		[ 0.3M gzipped, 2.2M uncompressed ]

	xman12	This set in the X11R6.1 manual set.
		[ 0.5M gzipped, 2.9M uncompressed ]

The sparc security distribution set is named "secr12" and can be found
in the "sparc/security" subdirectory of the NetBSD 1.2 distribution
tree.  It contains crypt.c (the source file for the DES encryption
algorithm) and the binaries which depend on it.  It can only be found
on those sites which carry the complete NetBSD distribution and that
can legally obtain it.  (Remember, because of United States law, this
distribution set may not be exported to locations outside of the
United States and Canada.)  [ 127K gzipped, 337K uncompressed ]

The sparc binary distribution sets are distributed in the same form as
the source distribution sets; catted together, the members of a set
form a gzipped tar file.  Each sparc binary distribution set also has
its own "CKSUMS" file, just as the source distribution sets do.  The
binary sets are "rooted" at /, that is, if you want to extract the
binaries "into" your system, i.e.  replace the system binaries with
them, you have to run the "tar xfp" from /.  Also note that if you
upgrade or install this way, those programs that you are using at the
time will NOT be replaced.  If you follow the normal installation or
upgrade procedures, this will be taken care of for you.

The "sparc/install" directory contains an install script, an upgrade
script, a "miniroot" filesystem, and two GENERIC kernels.  As well,
the distribution cannot be extracted using the SunOS "tar" program so
SunOS statically-linked versions of gzip (GNU gzip) and gtar (GNU tar)
are provided.
