	$NetBSD: contents,v 1.3.2.3 1999/02/05 06:42:51 cgd Exp $	

The x68k-specific portion of the NetBSD _VER release is found in the
"x68k" subdirectory of the distribution.  That subdirectory is laid
out as follows:

.../NetBSD-_VER/x68k/
			INSTALL		Installation notes; this file.

			binary/sets/	x68k binary distribution sets;
					see below.

			security/	x68k security distribution;
					see below;

			floppies/	x68k boot and installation
					floppy; see below.

			utils/		installation utilities which
					runs on Human68k.

There is a floppy image in the "x68k/floppies" subdirectory of the
NetBSD _VER distribution, called "boot.fs".  This can be used for both
installing NetBSD/x68k for the first time, and upgrading it from the
previous release.  There is also gzipped version of this floppy (named
with ".fs.gz") available.

The NetBSD/x68k binary distribution sets contain the binaries which
comprise the NetBSD _VER release for the x68k.  There are eight binary
distribution sets.  The binary distribution sets can be found in the
"x68k/binary/sets" subdirectory of the NetBSD _VER distribution tree,
and are as follows:

	base	The NetBSD/x68k _VER base binary distribution.  You
		MUST install this distribution set.  It contains the
		base NetBSD utilities that are necessary for the
		system to run and be minimally functional.  It
		includes shared library support, and excludes
		everything described below.
		[ 8.7M gzipped, 25.2M uncompressed ]

	comp	The NetBSD/x68k Compiler tools.  All of the tools
		relating to C, C++, Objective C, and FORTRAN (yes,
		there are two, although NO FORTRAN compiler!).
		This set includes the system include files
		(/usr/include), the linker, the compiler tool chain,
		and the various system libraries (except the shared
		libraries, which are included as part of the base
		set).  This set also includes the manual pages for all
		of the utilities it contains, as well as the system
		call and library manual pages.
		[ 6.5M gzipped, 22.8M uncompressed ]

	etc	This distribution set contains the system
		configuration files that reside in /etc and in several
		other places.  This set MUST be installed if you are
		installing the system from scratch, but should NOT be
		used if you are upgrading.  (If you are upgrading,
		it's recommended that you get a copy of this set and
		CAREFULLY upgrade your configuration files by hand.)
		[ 53K gzipped, 330K uncompressed ]

	games	This set includes the games and their manual pages.
		[ 2.8M gzipped, 7.0M uncompressed ]

	kern	This set contains a NetBSD/x68k _VER ALL kernel,
		named "/netbsd". You MUST install this distribution
		set.
		[ 640K gzipped, 1.4M uncompressed ]

	man	This set includes all of the manual pages for the
		binaries and other software contained in the base set.
		Note that it does not include any of the manual pages
		that are included in the other sets.
		[ 2.4M gzipped, 9.8M uncompressed ]

	misc	This set includes the system dictionaries (which are
		rather large), the typesettable document set, and
		man pages for other architectures which happen to be
		installed from the source tree by default.
		[ 2.1M gzipped, 8.2M uncompressed ]

	text	This set includes NetBSD's text processing tools,
		including groff, all related programs, and their
		manual pages.
		[ 1.0M gzipped, 3.7M uncompressed ]

	xbase	The basic files needed for a complete X
		client environment. This does not include
		the X servers.
		[ 2.4M gzipped, 7.4M uncompressed ]

	xcomp	The extra libraries and include files needed
		to compile X source code.
		[ 1.6M gzipped, 6.7M uncompressed ]

	xcontrib	Programs that were contributed to X.
		[ 178k gzipped, 670k uncompressed ]

	xfont	Fonts needed by X.
		[ 5.7M gzipped, 7M uncompressed ]

	xserver	x68k X servers.
		[ 1.4M gzipped, 3.3M unzipped ]

IMPORTANT: In previous versions of NetBSD, the kernel from the install
floppy was copied onto the hard drive in a special step. In the new
install system, the kernel on the floppy is unsuited to being copied
onto the hard drive. Instead, a new set, "kern", has been added which
contains a generic kernel to be unloaded onto the drive. It must be
extracted in order to have a minimally functioning system.

The x68k security distribution set is named "secr" and can be found in
the "x68k/binary/security" subdirectory of the NetBSD _VER
distribution tree.  It contains security related binaries which depend
on cryptographic source code. You do not need this distribution set to
use encrypted passwords in your password file; the "base" distribution
includes a crypt library which can perform only the decryption
function.  The security distribution includes a version of the
Kerberos IV network security system, and a Kerberized version of the
"telnet" program.  The "secr" distribution set can be found only on
those sites which carry the complete NetBSD distribution and which can
legally obtain it.  (Remember, because of United States law, it may
not be legal to distribute this set to locations outside of the United
States and Canada.)
	[ 798K gzipped, 2.4M uncompressed ]

The x68k binary distribution sets are distributed as gzipped tar files
named with the extension ".tgz", e.g. "base.tgz".

The instructions given for extracting the source sets work equally
well for the binary sets, but it is worth noting that if you use that
method, the files are extracted "below" the current directory.  That
is, if you want to extract the binaries "into" your system, i.e.
replace the system binaries with them, you have to run the "tar xpf"
from /.  Also note that if you upgrade or install this way, those
programs that you are using at the time will NOT be replaced unless
you run "tar" with the "--unlink" option.  If you follow the normal
installation or upgrade procedures, this will be taken care of for
you.
