The mac68k-specific portion of the NetBSD _VER release is found in the
"mac68k" subdirectory of the distribution.  That subdirectory is laid
out as follows:

.../NetBSD-_VER/mac68k/
			SOURCE_DATE	the date, in the default format
					produced by the date(1) command,
					of the source that the release was
					built from

			INSTALL		these installation notes

			binary/		mac68k system binaries;
					see below.

			installation/	installation helper items

The NetBSD/mac68k system binaries include the NetBSD/mac68k binary
distribution sets, additional kernels, and security-related system
binaries.  The NetBSD _VER release for the mac68k port is comprised of
those files found in the "mac68k/binary/sets" subdirectory of the NetBSD
_VER distribution tree.  There are seven system distribution sets, two
kernel distribution sets, and five X distribution sets.  The files in the
"sets" subdirectory are as follows:

	CKSUMS		checksums for the various files in the "sets"
			directory, in the default format produced by the
			cksum(1) command

	base.tgz	The NetBSD/mac68k _VER base binary distribution.
			You MUST install this distribution set.  It
			contains the base NetBSD utilities that are
			necessary for the system to run and be minimally
			functional.  It includes shared library support,
			and excludes everything described below.
			[ 8.6M gzipped, 25.1M uncompressed ]

	comp.tgz	The NetBSD/mac68k Compiler tools; all of the tools
			relating to C and C++.  This set includes the
			system include files (/usr/include), the linker,
			the compiler tool chain, and the various system
			libraries (except the shared libraries, which are
			included as part of the base set).  This set also
			includes the manual pages for all of the utilities
			it contains, as well as the system call and library
			manual pages. 
			[ 6.2M gzipped, 21.6M uncompressed ]

	etc.tgz		This distribution set contains the system
			configuration files that reside in /etc and in
			several other places.  This set MUST be installed
			if you are installing the system from scratch, but
			should NOT be used if you are upgrading.  (If you
			are upgrading, it's recommended that you get a copy
			of this set and CAREFULLY upgrade your
			configuration files by hand.) 
			[ 49K gzipped, 288K uncompressed ]

	games.tgz	This set includes the games and their manual pages.
			[ 2.8M gzipped, 7.2M uncompressed ]

	kern_sbc.tgz
	kern.tgz	The NetBSD/mac68k _VER kernel binary.  You MUST
			install this file.  It is the kernel that you need
			to boot the system.  If you experience SCSI-related
			difficulties with your 68030-based system, you
			might want to try kern_sbc.tgz instead.
			[ 606K gzipped, 1.32M uncompressed ]

	man.tgz		This set includes all of the manual pages for the
			binaries and other software contained in the base
			set.  Note that it does not include any of the
			manual pages that are included in the other sets. 
			[ 2.2M gzipped, 8.8M uncompressed ]

	misc.tgz	This set includes the system dictionaries (which
			are rather large), the typesettable document set,
			and man pages for other architectures which happen
			to be installed from the source tree by default. 
			[ 2.1M gzipped, 7.6M uncompressed ]

	text.tgz	This set includes NetBSD's text processing tools,
			including groff, all related programs, and their
			manual pages. 
			[ 1.0M gzipped, 3.7M uncompressed ]

	xbase.tgz	X clients, shared libraries, and related man pages.
			Also includes bitmaps and miscellaneous
			configuration files.
			[ 2.34 M gzipped, 7.46M uncompressed ]

	xcomp.tgz	Static libraries, include files (except bitmaps),
			X config files (for xmkmf), and related man pages.
			[ 1.57M gzipped, 6.38M uncompressed ]

	xcontrib.tgz	User-contributed X binaries (e.g. xev, xload) built
			from the X11 "contrib" sources with man pages and
			default config files.
			[ 178K gzipped, 661K uncompressed ]

	xfont.tgz	X11 fonts.
			[ 5.66M gzipped, 6.99M uncompressed ]

	xserver.tgz	The Xmac68k _monochrome_ server with man pages.
			[ 1.32M gzipped, 3.25M uncompressed ]

The NetBSD/mac68k security distribution set is named "secr.tgz" and can be
found in the "mac68k/binary/security" subdirectory of the NetBSD _VER
distribution tree.  It contains the crypt libraries (for the DES encryption
algorithm) and the binaries built from the "src/domestic" portion of the
NetBSD source tree which depend on it.  It can only be found on those sites
which carry the complete NetBSD distribution and that can legally obtain
it.  (Remember, because of United States law, it may not be legal to
distribute this set to locations outside of the United States and Canada.)
[ 779K gzipped, 2.5M uncompressed ]

The mac68k binary distribution sets are distributed as full .tar.gz files
(with the extension .tgz because the software used to download the sets may
incorrectly auto-unpack files ending in .gz and to accomodate systems which
only support 3 character extensions to file names).  The instructions
given for extracting the source sets work equally well for the binary sets,
but it is worth noting that if you use that method, the files are extracted
"below" the current directory.  That is, if you want to extract the
binaries "into" your system, i.e. replace the system binaries with them,
you have to run the "tar xpf" from /.  Also note that if you upgrade or
install this way, those programs that you are using at the time will NOT be
replaced.  If you follow the normal installation or upgrade procedures,
this will be taken care of for you.

Additional kernels to those included in the distribution sets may be found
in the "mac68k/binary/kernels" subdirectory of the NetBSD _VER distribution
tree.  These kernels are generally named something like "netbsd-GENERIC.gz"
or some other suitable name.  Please note that these kernels are simply
gzipped and are not in tar archives.  A CKSUM file is included in this
directory as well.

The MacOS-based utilities necessary for installing and running NetBSD can
be found in the "mac68k/installation/misc" subdirectory of the NetBSD
_VER distribution tree.  The important files in this directory are as
follows: 

	Booter.sea.hqx		The NetBSD/Mac68k Booter utility.  This
				program is used to boot the NetBSD kernel
				from within MacOS.
				[ 141 K archived ]

	Installer.sea.hqx	The NetBSD/Mac68k Installer utility.  This
				program is used to install the distribution
				sets onto your NetBSD partition(s).
				[ 147 K archived ]

	Mkfs.sea.hqx		The Mkfs utility.  This program is used to
				format your chosen partitions so that they
				can be used with NetBSD.
				[ 76 K archived ]

These files are all binhexed, self-extracting archives.  If you need them,
the sources for these utilities are in the "src" subdirectory.
