$NetBSD: isapnpdevs,v 1.1.2.1 1998/08/08 03:06:48 eeh Exp $

/*
 * Copyright (c) 1998, Christos Zoulas
 * All rights reserved.
 *
 * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
 * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
 * are met:
 * 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
 * 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
 *    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
 * 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
 *    must display the following acknowledgement:
 *      This product includes software developed by Christos Zoulas
 *	for the NetBSD Project.
 * 4. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
 *    derived from this software without specific prior written permission
 *
 * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
 * IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
 * OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
 * IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
 * INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
 * NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
 * DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
 * THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
 * (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
 * THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
 */

/*
 * List of known drivers
 */
driver	aic	Adaptec SCSI
driver	com	National Semiconductor Serial
driver	ep	3Com 3CXXX Ethernet
driver	joy	Generic Joystick
driver	gus	Gravis Ultrasound
driver	le	Lance Ethernet
driver	ne	NE2000 Ethernet
driver	pcic	PCMCIA bridge
driver	sb	Creative Soundblaster
driver	wdc	Western Digital Disk Controller
driver	wss	Microsoft Sound System
driver	ym	Yamaha Sound

/*
 * aic
 */
devlogic	aic	ADP1520		Adaptec AHA-1520B

/*
 * com
 */
devlogic	com	BDP3336		Best Data Prods. 336F
devlogic	com	OZO8039		Zoom 56k flex
devlogic	com	BRI1400		Boca 33.6 PnP
devlogic	com	BRIB400		Boca 56k PnP
devlogic	com	ROK0010		Rockwell ?
devlogic	com	USR2070		USR Sportster 56k
devcompat	com	PNP0500		Generic 8250/16450
devcompat	com	PNP0501		Generic 16550A

/*
 * ep
 */
devlogic	ep	TCM5090		3Com 3c509B
devlogic	ep	TCM5091		3Com 3c509B-1
devlogic	ep	TCM5094		3Com 3c509B-4
devlogic	ep	TCM5095		3Com 3c509B-5
devlogic	ep	TCM5098		3Com 3c509B-8

/*
 * joy
 */
devlogic	joy	CSCA801		Terratec EWS64XL
devlogic	joy	CTL7002		Creative Vibra16CL
devlogic	joy	ESS0001		ESS1868
devlogic	joy	OPT0001		OPTi Audio 16
devlogic	joy	PNPB02F		XXX broken GUS PnP
devcompat	joy	PNPB02F		generic

/*
 * gus
 */
devlogic	gus	GRV0000		Gravis Ultrasound

/*
 * le
 */
devlogic	le	TKN0010		Lance Ethernet

/*
 * ne
 */
devcompat	ne	PNP80D6		Digital DE305 ISAPnP

/*
 * pcic
 */
devcompat	pcic	PNP0E00		PCIC Compatible PCMCIA Bridge

/*
 * sb
 */
devlogic	sb	ADS7150		AD1815
devlogic	sb	ADS7180		AD1816
devlogic	sb	CTL0001		SB
devlogic	sb	CTL0031		SB AWE32
devlogic	sb	CTL0041		SB16 PnP (CT4131)
devlogic	sb	CTL0043		SB16 PnP (CT4170)
devlogic	sb	CTL0042		SB AWE64 Value
devlogic	sb	CTL0044		SB AWE64 Gold
devlogic	sb	CTL0045		SB AWE64 Value
devlogic	sb	ESS1868		ESS1868
devlogic	sb	OPT9250		Televideo card, Opti
devcompat	sb	PNPB000		Generic SB 1.5
devcompat	sb	PNPB001		Generic SB 2.0
devcompat	sb	PNPB002		Generic SB Pro
devcompat	sb	PNPB003		Generic SB 16

/*
 * wdc
 */
devcompat	wdc	PNP0600		Western Digital Compatible Controller

/*
 * wss
 */
devlogic	wss	CSC0000		Windows Sound System

/*
 * ym
 */
devlogic	ym	YMH0021		OPL3-SA2, OPL3-SA3
